---
layout: default
title: Know the basics
parent: Getting Started
nav_order: 2
---

# Know the Basics

For anyone just beginning their journey with Base, there are a few critical
pieces of information to be aware of. Base offers a unique way to exchange and
transact with others, differing significantly from traditional offchain methods.

It's important to fully educate oneself before engaging in substantial
transactions using Base. Always treat your Base transactions with the same
caution as your regular wallet, if not more!

## Security Measures for Your Wallet

Your onchain wallet that you use with Base needs the same security precautions
as your real-life wallet, if not more.

The Base network along with your onchain wallet facilitates easy value transfers
to any location, giving you control over your funds. However, these exceptional
features come with a set of security concerns. If utilized properly, Base can
offer high levels of security. Remember, it's your responsibility to adopt sound
security practices to safeguard your funds.

## Irreversibility of Base Payments

A noteworthy characteristic of Base is that transactions are irreversible; they
can only be refunded by the receiver. It's imperative to conduct transactions
with reputable individuals and organizations that you trust. Businesses, too,
need to monitor the payment requests they present to their customers.

Although many wallets that support Base can detect errors and generally prevent
you from sending money to an invalid address, it's always better to have extra
safeguards in place. Future additional services may provide more options and
protection for consumers and businesses alike.

## The Non-Anonymity of Base

Contrary to some beliefs, Base transactions are not anonymous. All Base
transactions are stored publicly and permanently on the network. This means that
the balance and transactions of any Base address are available for anyone to
see. However, the identity behind an address remains undisclosed until it is
revealed during a purchase or under other circumstances. It is vital to adopt
sound practices to maintain your privacy if it is a priority or concern.

## Government Regulations and Taxes

Most jurisdictions require that taxes such as income, sales, payroll, and
capital gains be paid on anything with value, including on Base. It falls upon
your shoulders to ensure adherence to any tax and legal or regulatory
requirements put forth by your government or local authorities.
