---
layout: default
title: Understanding the concept of Onchain
parent: Getting Started
nav_order: 1
---

# Understanding the concept of Onchain

Onchain refers to all transactions and actions that occur directly on a
blockchain network, and Base is exactly this type of network. Activities are
recorded on a blockchain, and "onchain" is simply a shortened way of saying
this. The blockchain, "the chain," is a transparent, verifiable record of every
single transaction that has ever happened on the network.

## Components of an Onchain Transaction

### Transactions

In the context of a blockchain network, transactions aren't just about
exchanging digital assets. They can also include other operations like deploying
a smart contract or making changes to data stored in the blockchain. Once a
transaction is validated and added to a blockchain, it is permanently recorded
and cannot be altered.

### Blocks

A blockchain is composed of individual blocks. Each block contains a set of
transactions that have been validated by network participants, known as miners
in cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum. The block is linked to the
previous one, creating a chain of blocksâ€”hence the term "blockchain."

### Validation Process

Before a transaction can become part of a block, it needs to be validated. This
process involves solving complex mathematical problems and is carried out by
miners. Once a problem is solved, the transaction is deemed valid and can be
added to a block.

## Why is Onchain Important?

Understanding Onchain is essential for several reasons:

### Transparency

Because all transactions are recorded on the public ledger, blockchain networks
offer unprecedented levels of transparency. Anyone can review the transaction
history, making the system highly transparent and accountable.

### Security

Blockchain networks are decentralized, which means they don't rely on a central
point of control. This structure makes them highly resistant to attacks and
fraud. Once a transaction is recorded on the blockchain, it cannot be altered,
providing a high level of security.

### Efficiency

Blockchain can automate various processes, eliminating the need for
intermediaries and reducing costs and delays. This makes blockchain technology
and Onchain transactions highly efficient.

### Verifiability

The unalterable nature of Onchain transactions means that they can serve as
proof of all operations carried out on the blockchain. This can be particularly
useful in situations where verification and auditability are essential, such as
in financial services or supply chain management.

## The future is onchain

Onchain is a fundamental concept in understanding how blockchain networks like
Base operate. It refers to all the activities that take place directly on the
blockchain network and are recorded on the public ledger. This mechanism ensures
transparency, security, efficiency, and verifiability, making blockchain
technology a disruptive force in many industries. As we continue to embrace
digital transformation, understanding concepts like onchain is crucial for the
innovators of tomorrow - who will become the leaders and change-makers of the
future.
